
This is Peter's fantasy basketball project for my introductory computer science class. This project is a fantasy basketball website made using Flask. To configure the project, a user can edit the .html files, .css file, and .py files. The data for this website is sourced from balldontlie.io and data was stored in sqlite databases. The project also lives in the CS50 IDE.

Once the site opens on the user’s server, the user is brought to a login page. If the user already has an account, the user can log in. However, if the user does not have an account, the user can click on register on the top left to make an account. Once the user makes an account, the user makes an account, the user can now log in.

Logging in, the user is brought to the main page, which greets the user and encourages him to either create or join a league. In order to create or join the league, the user clicks on “League Info” tab and then can click on either button, respectively. If the user clicks on “Create a league,” the user is brought to a page and can make a league name and choose the number of teams (4 to 10) that can join the league. Once the user creates his league, the user can now join the league by clicking on the “League Info,” and then the “Join a league” button, which will bring the user to a page where the user can select a league to join. The user can see a table of leagues to join, which includes the limit of the number of teams that can join and the current number of teams currently in the league. When the user selects the league to join, the user is then alerted that he joined the league and is brought back to the home page.

From there, the user can click on the ‘Players’ tab and then select the league he is in. After choosing the league he wants to focus on, he is brought to a page to add players to his roster. This league is a cash league, which means that each user has $300 and can buy available players according to how much cash they have. Moreover, the player’s page has season averages of players as well as their salary price. Users can also sort the players by salary and points per game. Adding players is simple by simply clicking on the ‘Add’ button, but the transaction will only go through if the user has enough money, where the user’s cash is also highlighted at the top.

After buying the players the user wants, the user can then see how his team is doing in the “My Team” tab. The user has to select the league they want to view their roster and is then brought to the page that shows their team’s roster in that particular league. The user can also drop players and can thus gain money in that regard. The page also shows the fantasy points produced by the user’s players and its total as well as the cash the user has left. The formula for calculating fantasy points is Fantasy Points = Points + 2xAssists + 2xRebounds + 2xSteals + 2xBlocks - 2xTurnover. Additionally, this is a roto-league, so the standings are based on the total fantasy points produced throughout the season. Since the NBA is currently not playing right now, the fantasy points seen on the website are representative of player’s statistics during December 2019. When the 2020 season begins, the user can click on the  “Update” button to update statistics during the 2020 season.

Moreover, the user can click on “Leaderboards” and select the league he is in to see the standings of the league selected. It is ranked by total fantasy points.


